We will analyze the evolution or
growth in the last decades of
an exemplary company like Osborne.
Osborne is exemplary in many things.
One of them is because it
has managed to create a brand that
is truly iconic, it is a national symbol.
Another is because it is a company
founded in 1774 and that still
belongs to the founding family and
has not done more than grow
since then.
But well, what we're going to see
today is your more or less recent
growth strategy, right?
The aim is to strengthen the
knowledge learned.
We will use the Igor
Ansov matrix.
The Igor Ansov matrix
represents the four
growth alternatives of
a company.
Grow in your market, grow in
the current market with new
products or head to new markets
or, finally, diversify,
which is the most risky
option.
We are going to be in
the 1900s, in the 1970s,
right?
Osborne, a company originating
in Porto Santa María, in southern
Spain, was very focused on brandy,
it was its core product.
And if we analyze the product
life cycle, another tool you should
know well, brandy at that time,
and especially subsequently,
has been entering the decline
phase.
Sales, as the graph shows,
have been declining.
What happens?
That if you are mainly in a declining
sector, you have to look for
other alternatives to growth
because the penetration in the
market, which is the
most logical, simpler,
with less risk, is complicated
a lot.
You won't grow up there.
You have to choose others and let'
s see how Osborne has done
it from the 1970s to now.
You have chosen to develop
products, to develop markets
and to diversify.
The three alternatives of growth
have been successfully implemented.
Let us start with the development
of products.
Osborne has done what it did,
starting from being a brand primarily
brandy, with a beverage, a type
of beverage, has been expanding
the range very much within the
sector, especially of alcoholic
beverages.
And how did he do it?
This is done mainly
by two ways.
One is inorganic growth.
Remember, inorganic
growth is external growth.
What Osborne has done has been to
go buying companies or brands that
have allowed him to have a wider,
more varied offer.
It has allowed him to enter the Rioja
wine or other designations of origin
or to buy a brand like Anís
del Mono.
Or enter the gin sector,
which has grown a lot in
recent years.
In this case, buying
a Galician gin in 2015.
The beer has also grown a lot
and Osborne wanted to take
advantage of that growth.
And what he has done is a strategic
alliance with a brewery
company, brewery.
And now it has two brands like
this that we have on the boxer'
s screen.
And a brand of beer with Osborne'
s own brand, with Toro.
As we can see, he has developed
his product in an organic way, buying.
But, and this is very important, and
it started to do it in the 1970s.
It was a great success, it was
a very good decision.
Osborne decided not only to incorporate
into its range of products, brands
or products.
Acquired by Osborne, but
become a third-party brand
distributor.
This is what we call vertical
integration forward, you
should understand this concept
well.
You will see it by looking at
the value chain.
If we draw the value chain of the
wine sector, everything is born of the
raw material, which in this case is
grapes.
There is a producer, in this case the
producer is Osborne, it is the cellar.
There is a distributor or
wholesaler who sells these
bottles to retailers.
It can be from a supermarket
to a bar, to a hotel.
Now we are coming to the consumer.
Osborne in the value chain is in
the second stage that is the producer.
But what he decided was to become
not just a producer, not just
a cellar.
In a distributor, in a distributor.
Both their own and third-party trademarks.
This allows you to grow much faster.
It also allows you to incorporate
brands like Red Bull for example.
He was Red Bull's official
distributor in Spain for
a few years.
It is finished.
Brockmans, Geneva, Fever Tree, Tonica,
Ron Santa Teresa, etc.
What you have now is a...
These are not all the brands you have,
they are part of the brands.
But what you have a huge portfolio
of alcoholic beverages.
Part of which are owned trademarks,
property acquired by Osborne,
acquired or licensed by Osborne.
And in some cases what they are are
brands that Osborne distributes.
Is it worth?
Now, let's go to the second of the
alternatives of growth.
You have, as we see Osborne,
a very large portfolio.
It is very logical to go out and try
to sell in new geographical markets.
to go out.
It is present in 53 countries
and 30% of its sales are overseas.
This is very common in the industry,
right?
I will tell you one.
Osborne wanted to go to China.
Usually if you want to enter China
or in complicated geographical
markets what you do is a strategic
alliance with a company
there.
It's a trade ally, right?
A youth or anything.
In contrast, Osborne did in 2014
an agreement with a very powerful
Chinese investor group, Fosun.
But it was curious because Osborne didn'
t enter, didn't do a YoInventure in China.
What he did is, Fosun acquired 20%
of the shares of the parent company.
The Matrix in Spain.
This allowed Osborne to
capitalize to make some powerful
acquisition.
And he also won, say, a Chinese partner
that would allow him to enter
China strongly.
Well, this was overthrown two years
later and Osborne recovered that 20%.
But Fosun remains a Chinese
trade ally that helps Osborne
grow in China.
Another way to develop your
market, to get out to new markets,
is not to go abroad, but
to get new customer elements
for your current products.
Osborne tried it.
He said his product was
brandy.
Who are the brandy
buyers?
People of middle age.
And in decline.
In decline the sales of the Brandy,
as I commented, in decline
since the 1970s.
Osborne tried to increase or
encourage demand for brandy
among young people by associating
the brandy with a combined,
cup, night, etc.
drink.
He created the Toro brand.
But it did not have excessive success.
And we go to the last of the
strategic alternatives that is
diversification.
This is the one that carries the most risk.
But he did it with quite success.
For example, it has entered the
bottled water, mineral water
sector.
He acquired a stake in Solán
de Cabras which he later sold to
the San Miguel Group.
But during those years the brand Solán
de Cabras was greatly strengthened
and grew enormously.
It is currently in the
food industry.
Because it is the owner of two
brands of the most well-known of
Jamón Ibérico.
And another very clear
example of diversification,
even less related, is the entry,
is that it is currently
owner of a 5J restaurant
chain.
You see it is far away,
right?
It is less related, there are fewer
synergies between a restaurant
chain and its traditional
alcoholic beverage business.
Well, to finish, as we have
seen, Osborne, a company founded
in 1700.
It has only grown since
its birth and in the 1970s
faces a complex situation
because its main product
enters a decline
phase.
So you have to choose other
growth alternatives, right?
And as I have told you, it chooses
to expand its range of products
and has a huge portfolio, as we
have seen.
Some are own because they have bought them
and others are not, others are...
He is the distributor of these products.
From brands like Geneva Procmans,
for example.
He has opted, as is logical in
the sector and as have done all
the companies to go out to foreign
markets and has sold a 30%, and
also, as it has been a company
traditionally with very good
results and strongly
capitalized, has allowed him
to invest in more distant.
A diversification strategy, such
as entering Solán de Cabras or
as in Jamón Ibérico or as a chain
of restaurants.